---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "CARLA 0.8.3: Even Faster CARLA + Bicycles and Motorbikes + Docker"
subtitle: ""
author: "@felipecode"
description: "Adding bicycles and motorbikes speed ups and docker."
date:   2018-06-08 08:00:00 +0002
image: 'img/carla.jpg'
background: '/img/0.8.3banner.png'
---

We know, you were probably very
 anxious after almost two months without receiving  new
CARLA releases. But here we are, as you probably
saw in the title, CARLA now has bikes and motorbikes !
Created by the CARLA's film artist Francisco Perez,
check out our promotional video:

<div class="intrinsic-container intrinsic-container-16x9">
  <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6uCbRHj3ojo?feature=oembed&vq=hd720" frameborder="0" gesture="media" allowfullscreen="" class="fluidvids-item" data-fluidvids="loaded"></iframe>
</div>

The list of new bike models is vast and includes Harley Davidsons,
Yamahas, Ninja Kawasakis, Scooters, road bicycles and more!
And, as everything else in carla,
 they are free to download, change and redistribute. We would like
  to thank all the  amazing work of our 3D artists for the past months
  on designing and animating these models.


To follow our compromise in always speed up CARLA. We also present 
another **major improvement on the FPS** due to optimizations on CARLA's assets. 
As you can see in the figure, we got an upgrade of about  **without any drop in visual quality**







If you thought that was all, we still have one more big feature.
At this moment, CARLA is able to run with Docker, so there are no
more  annoying specific system requirements for
running CARLA. You can just go into your server and execute CARLA
on a selected gpu, all that using the magic of docker.

So here we show the full list of CARLA 0.8.3 release improvements and fixes:


  * Added two-wheeled vehicles, 3 bicycles and 4 motorbikes
  * Several art optimizations (CARLA is now about ???? faster)
    - Improved the performance of trees
    - Drastically reduced the number of polygons of the landscape while keeping the original shape
    - Removed some unnecessary assets
    - Remodelled Mustang and NissanMicra, now with less polygons and materials, better textures and LOD
    - Remodelled building SM_TerracedHouse_01, now with more polygons but less materials and better textures
  * CARLA releases include now a Dockerfile for building docker images
  * Change in HUD: replace "FPS" by "Simulation Step"
  * The current map name is now included in the scene description message sent to the client
  * Adapted "manual_control.py" and "view_start_positions.py" to use the map name sent by the simulator
  * Improved the vehicle spawning algorithm, now it tries to spawn as much cars as possible even if there are not enough spawn points
  * "Setup.sh" is now faster and accepts an argument to run multiple jobs in parallel
  * Fixed foliage distance culling using wrong distance in "Low Mode"
  * Fixed NissanMicra slightly turning left when driving straight