---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "CARLA 0.9.0: Multi-client multi-agent support"
subtitle: ""
description: "We are releasing a development version with the latest features; multi-client support and a completely redesigned API that allows to control every vehicle in the simulation."
author: "@nsubiron"
date:   2018-07-30 08:00:00 +0002
image: 'img/carla.jpg'
---

We are very proud to announce CARLA 0.9.0!

In this release we have completely redesigned the networking architecture and
built from scratch a new Python API that completely changes the way CARLA is
used. Every vehicle can now be controlled, cameras can be placed anywhere, and
any number of client applications can connect simultaneously to the same
instance of the simulator. But beware, this is a **development release**. The
amount of changes we are doing is enormous, so we wanted to make available some
of the latest features for our brave users that want to start experimenting with
the new CARLA API. Many things that were there will be temporarily unavailable
and many new issues will appear, but we believe all these changes are worth it
and put us straight on our road map for creating a great autonomous driving
simulator for everyone!

{% include release_button.html release_tag="0.9.0" %}

Disclaimer said, let's talk a bit about the cool features that this release
brings.

#### Multi-client

The server-client communication has been redesign to allow any number of clients
connecting and making changes to the simulation concurrently. It is finally
possible to have a **multi-player** simulation with different AIs and humans
driving around in the same city.

{% include youtube.html id="vxZRlw_39ms" %}

We have switched our networking protocol to an RPC model, using the great
[rpclib][rpcliblink]{:target="_blank"} library. The new model uses two TCP
ports, by default 2000 and 2001, the first one used to control the simulation
with rpclib, the second one does the streaming of the sensor data. Both client
and server work asynchronously, and although many optimizations are yet to be
made, the latency is already pretty low.

The multi-client support opens the door to very interesting scenarios and
integrations with third-party software like traffic control tools and pedestrian
behaviour modelling libraries. It's great for scalability as each of the
clients can be run on a different node.

[rpcliblink]: http://rpclib.net/

#### Python API

The final goal of the new API is to allow users to control every aspect of the
simulation. Our view is to have everything available from Python; loading maps,
adding sensors, adding static obstacles, controlling vehicles and pedestrians,
and what not. The 0.9.0 API is just a step forward on that direction, but there
are a bunch of cool things that you can already do with it.

But first we need to introduce a few core concepts:

  - **Actor:** Actor is anything that plays a role in the simulation and can be
    moved around, examples of actors are vehicles, pedestrians, and sensors.
  - **Blueprint:** Before spawning an actor you need to specify its attributes,
    and that's what blueprints are for. We provide a blueprint library with
    the definitions of all the actors available for you to choose.
  - **World:** The world represents the currently loaded map and contains the
    functions for converting a blueprint into a living actor moving around in
    the simulation.

All the actors can be created and destroyed at any point during the simulation,
and all of them can be controlled or moved around. In this release only vehicles
and cameras are available but in coming releases we'll add pedestrians and
traffic lights as well.

Let's take a quick peek at how it looks, the following code adds a red Mustang
to the simulation and enables its autopilot so the car can drive freely around
the city on its own

```py
from carla import *

client = Client('localhost', 2000)

world = client.get_world()
blueprint = world.get_blueprint_library().find('ford.mustang')
blueprint.set_attribute('color', '255,0,0')

transform = Transform(Location(x=230, y=195, z=40), Rotation(yaw=180))

mustang = world.spawn_actor(blueprint, transform)
mustang.set_autopilot()
```

Now let's attach a camera to this vehicle so we can take a look at what's going
on

```py
blueprint = world.get_blueprint_library().find('sensor.camera')
blueprint.set_attribute('post_processing', 'SceneFinal')
camera = world.spawn_actor(
    blueprint,
    Transform(Location(x=0.5, z=1.8)),
    attach_to=vehicle)

camera.listen(lambda image: do_something(image))
```

the callback function passed to the `listen` method will be called every time a
new image is received. This callback is executed asynchronously, this
considerably speeds up the parsing of images. Now it is possible to do things
like saving images to disk keeping up with the speed of the simulator.

Actors can also be teleported and moved around the city, for that we have
exposed the `set_location` and `set_transform` methods

```py
location = vehicle.get_location()
location.x += 10.0
vehicle.set_location(location)
```

and in the special case of vehicles, they can be controlled too in the usual way

```py
vehicle.apply_control(VehicleControl(throttle=1.0, steer=-1.0))
```

For the full list of methods available take a look at the
[Python API Reference][apireflink]{:target="_blank"}.

We'll revisiting and improving this API in the coming releases. If you find any
issues or think of cool improvements that can be added, please don't hesitate to
share it with the community at our [GitHub][githubrepolink]{:target="_blank"} or
[Discord chat][discordlink]{:target="_blank"}.

[apireflink]: http://carla.readthedocs.io/en/latest/python_api/
[githubrepolink]: https://github.com/carla-simulator/carla
[discordlink]: https://discord.gg/8kqACuC

#### Things missing

Many features that are present in previous releases are gone in this one. Things
like Lidar, pedestrians, bikes, synchronous mode, or quality settings. This is
due to the fact that we have switched to a new API and many things haven't been
ported yet. We'll be adding them soon in the coming releases. As said before,
this is a work in progress, we want to share this progress with the community,
after all we think this can be already useful for a lot of people.

#### Full list of changes

  * Upgraded to Unreal Engine 4.19
  * Redesign of the networking architecture
    - Allows any number of clients to connect simultaneously
    - Now is possible to add and remove at any time any vehicle or camera
    - Now is possible to control any vehicle or camera
    - Now is possible to place cameras anywhere
    - Reduced to two ports instead of three
    - First port uses an RPC protocol based on [rpclib](http://rpclib.net/)
    - Second port is for the streaming of the sensor data
  * Redesign of the Python API
    - Actors and sensors are now exposed in the API and can be independently controlled
    - The Python module is built in C++, with significant performance gain in some operations
    - Many functionality haven't been ported yet, so expect a lot of things missing
  * Redesign of the build system to accommodate the changes in dependencies
    - Everything can be done now with the Makefile
    - For the moment only Linux is supported, sorry
  * Massive clean up of all unused assets
  * Some aesthetic fixes to the vehicles
