---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "CARLA 0.10.0 Release"
subtitle: "Unreal Engine 5.3 migration, Lumen and Nanite, brand new asssets, revamped Town 10"
description: "Unreal Engine 5.3 migration, Lumen and Nanite, brand new asssets, revamped Town 10"
author: "@MattRoweEAIF"
image: 'img/carla.jpg'
background: '/img/posts/2023-11-10/cvc.png'
---

{% include youtube.html id="q4V9GYjA1pE" %}

{% include release_button.html release_tag="0.9.15" %}

The CARLA team is delighted to announce the release of CARLA version 0.10.0 with a big leap forward to Unreal Engine 5.3, bringing UE 5.3's incredible Lumen and Nanite technology into CARLA's core, enhancing realism, detail and performance. 

- Improvements in camera fidelity
- Vehicle dynamics and physics: clarify that the physics is updated (not better, but different, now they have suspension)
- New content, Town 10, buildings, vehicles
- Inverted AI integration (if working)
- Rework of instance segmentation (performance improvement) performance difference
- Fixed memory leaks (talk to Jorge)

- Explain new documentation organization

The documentation for the Unreal Engine 5 version of CARLA is hosted at the address: [carla-ue5.readthedocs.io](https://carla-ue5.readthedocs.io) 


## Lumen

Lumen is Unreal Engine 5's new global illumination and reflections system that improves the appearance of indirectly illuminated objects. In a real world scene, a lot of the light illuminating an object comes not from a direct light source like the sun or a streetlamp, but from light diffusely reflected from other objects. The objects that reflect the light affect its qualities, such as color and intensity. Lumen models these indirect lighting effects and reflections with stunning realism!

## Nanite

Nanite is the new virtualized geometry system at the core of Unreal Engine 5. It allows an __unprecedented level of geometry detail__ and high object counts without compromising performance. Meshes can be used with a far higher level of geometric detail while still achieving real-time performance due to Nanite's intelligent geometry management. Nanite only works on the level of detail that can be perceived, distant objects in the scene are rendered using less polygons while Nanite continuously adjusts the number of polygons used for an object as its distance from the camera changes. Level Of Detail meshes (LODs) are no longer needed, eliminating the artefacts associated with LODs and reducing modelling time. 

### Chaos physics

### Instance segmentation rework

### New API function

### Build system rework